README.md, before:

# E-Collecting Hackathon
At the Federal Chancellery's [E-Collecting](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home/politische-rechte/e-collecting.html) [Hackathon](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home/politische-rechte/e-collecting/aktuelles.html) (October 31 and November 1, 2025, in Bern), we are designing and developing solutions for collecting electronic signatures for popular initiatives and referendums from A to Z. Meet developers, experts, and interested parties from government, politics, academia, and civil society, and play an active role in shaping e-collecting. [Register now!](https://findmind.ch/c/hackathon-registration)

![E-Collecting decorative visual](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ffa93f97-0f16-4abb-80ea-1d5dff9d4eba)

Over the course of two days, you will develop your solutions, addressing the 10 topics outlined in the [guidelines](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home/politische-rechte/e-collecting/aktuelles.html). You will work in teams taking different approaches to said topics. You can develop a conceptual, clickable, and/or technical prototype. Either way, you should clearly present the interactions and data flows between actors, software, and infrastructure components over time, as well as the user experience of these actors.

Together, you will contribute to comparing different ways of how to implement e-collecting in Switzerland. As part of the [participatory process](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home/politische-rechte/e-collecting/partizipativer_prozess.html), your solutions will be discussed in subsequent workshops and will possibly be taken into account for the official decision on the design of the federal e-collecting trials. Proper documentation is key to ensuring that your solution can be understood and evaluated.

## Teams and Approaches

- [1) Voll-medienbruchfreies E-Collecting: direkte  Demokratie im digitalen Zeitalter](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team1/)
- [2) E-Collecting vom bestehenden Stimmregister aus gedacht](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team2/)
- [3) Update_CH](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team3/)
- [4) E-Collecting Customer Journey unter Nutzung der Capabilities der Schweizerischen Post](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team4/)
- [5) E-Collecting mittels einfacher digitaler Signatur](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team5/)
- [6) Anonymous Fully Verifiable E-Collecting](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team6/)
- [7) Vom St.Galler E-Collecting Portal zur Lösung für eidgenössische Vorlagen](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team7/)
- [8) Fully decentralized E-Collecting](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team8/)
- [9) Kryptographie, verteiltes System, E-ID Vertrauensinfrastruktur](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team9/)
- [10) Le système récolte des signatures sur le portail citoyen genevois](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team10/)
- [11) Digital aber mit physischem Kontakt](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team11/)
- [12) e-initiative.ch](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team12/)

## Getting started

0. Create an account on GitHub.
1. Join a [team i.e. approach](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon/tree/main?tab=readme-ov-file#teams-and-approaches) during the team building process at the hackathon.
2. Add your name and GitHub account to the "Team Members" section of your team's GitHub repository README file.
3. Design and develop your solution.
4. Document your solution.
5. Present and demo your solution at the end of the hackathon.


## Program

You can find the program on the [Federal Chancellery's Website](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home/politische-rechte/e-collecting/aktuelles.html).

## Location

Bernerhof, [Bundesgasse 3, 3003 Bern](https://www.openstreetmap.org/way/255112490#map=19/46.946220/7.441565)

## Tools and Resources

- [Federal Chancellery's E-Collecting Whitepaper/Guidelines (GER, FRA, ITA)](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home/politische-rechte/e-collecting/aktuelles.html)
- [Postulate Report: E-Collecting (-> Documents; GER, FRA, ITA)](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home/politische-rechte/e-collecting.html)
- [Mermaid](https://mermaid.js.org/ ): create diagrams like flowcharts or sequence diagrams from text in a similar manner as markdown 
	-  [directly on GitHub](https://github.blog/developer-skills/github/include-diagrams-markdown-files-mermaid/) (free)
  -  [including a graphical user interface ](https://www.mermaidchart.com) (freemium)
  -  [code editor](https://mermaid.live/) (free)
  -  [GPT](https://chatgpt.com/g/g-684cc36f30208191b21383b88650a45d-mermaid-chart-diagrams-and-charts) (paid via OpenAI)
  -  and [many more integrations](https://mermaid.js.org/ecosystem/integrations-community.html)
- GitHub: [Get started](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/start-your-journey/hello-world)
- UX, Design and Prototyping Tools, e.g.:
	- [Figma](https://www.figma.com/) 
	- [Penpot](https://penpot.app/)
 	- [Miro](https://miro.com/)
- [DVS4U](https://heidi-universe.ch/en/index.html) (API for issuing and verifying credentials based on the e-ID)

## Mentors

Mentors will support you in developping your solutions. You will find physical documents at the hackathon, listing the mentors with their respective skills (e.g. tools, E-ID, cryptography, accessibility) and perspectives (e.g. municipalities, cantons, Federal Chancellery) as well as the slots for their presentations (if applicable).

## Contributing

By participating in this hackathon, you accept and agree to our [code of conduct](/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Language

The hackathon will be moderated in German and simultaneously translated into French. Presentations will be given in German or French and simultaneously translated. Most of the time, participants will work in their respective teams, where they can choose one or more languages.

## Organizers

The [Institute for Public Sector Transformation](https://www.bfh.ch/en/research/research-areas/public-sector-transformation/) at Bern University of Applied Sciences (BFH) is organising the hackathon on behalf of the [Federal Chancellery](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home.html).

Commit message:

Update README.md: Added Link to overview under "Teams and Approaches"

README.md, after:

# E-Collecting Hackathon
At the Federal Chancellery's [E-Collecting](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home/politische-rechte/e-collecting.html) [Hackathon](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home/politische-rechte/e-collecting/aktuelles.html) (October 31 and November 1, 2025, in Bern), we are designing and developing solutions for collecting electronic signatures for popular initiatives and referendums from A to Z. Meet developers, experts, and interested parties from government, politics, academia, and civil society, and play an active role in shaping e-collecting. [Register now!](https://findmind.ch/c/hackathon-registration)

![E-Collecting decorative visual](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ffa93f97-0f16-4abb-80ea-1d5dff9d4eba)

Over the course of two days, you will develop your solutions, addressing the 10 topics outlined in the [guidelines](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home/politische-rechte/e-collecting/aktuelles.html). You will work in teams taking different approaches to said topics. You can develop a conceptual, clickable, and/or technical prototype. Either way, you should clearly present the interactions and data flows between actors, software, and infrastructure components over time, as well as the user experience of these actors.

Together, you will contribute to comparing different ways of how to implement e-collecting in Switzerland. As part of the [participatory process](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home/politische-rechte/e-collecting/partizipativer_prozess.html), your solutions will be discussed in subsequent workshops and will possibly be taken into account for the official decision on the design of the federal e-collecting trials. Proper documentation is key to ensuring that your solution can be understood and evaluated.

## Teams and Approaches

- [1) Voll-medienbruchfreies E-Collecting: direkte  Demokratie im digitalen Zeitalter](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team1/)
- [2) E-Collecting vom bestehenden Stimmregister aus gedacht](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team2/)
- [3) Update_CH](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team3/)
- [4) E-Collecting Customer Journey unter Nutzung der Capabilities der Schweizerischen Post](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team4/)
- [5) E-Collecting mittels einfacher digitaler Signatur](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team5/)
- [6) Anonymous Fully Verifiable E-Collecting](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team6/)
- [7) Vom St.Galler E-Collecting Portal zur Lösung für eidgenössische Vorlagen](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team7/)
- [8) Fully decentralized E-Collecting](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team8/)
- [9) Kryptographie, verteiltes System, E-ID Vertrauensinfrastruktur](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team9/)
- [10) Le système récolte des signatures sur le portail citoyen genevois](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team10/)
- [11) Digital aber mit physischem Kontakt](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team11/)
- [12) e-initiative.ch](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon-team12/)

_There is also a regularly updated overview of all the teams and their approaches: [Link](https://gist.github.com/dune73/08cb549ea4c69e18a2d3dc32f1ab80c3#file-e-collecting-hackathon-overview-md) (by Christian Folini / [@dune73](https://github.com/dune73))_

## Getting started

0. Create an account on GitHub.
1. Join a [team i.e. approach](https://github.com/swiss/e-collecting-hackathon/tree/main?tab=readme-ov-file#teams-and-approaches) during the team building process at the hackathon.
2. Add your name and GitHub account to the "Team Members" section of your team's GitHub repository README file.
3. Design and develop your solution.
4. Document your solution.
5. Present and demo your solution at the end of the hackathon.


## Program

You can find the program on the [Federal Chancellery's Website](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home/politische-rechte/e-collecting/aktuelles.html).

## Location

Bernerhof, [Bundesgasse 3, 3003 Bern](https://www.openstreetmap.org/way/255112490#map=19/46.946220/7.441565)

## Tools and Resources

- [Federal Chancellery's E-Collecting Whitepaper/Guidelines (GER, FRA, ITA)](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home/politische-rechte/e-collecting/aktuelles.html)
- [Postulate Report: E-Collecting (-> Documents; GER, FRA, ITA)](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home/politische-rechte/e-collecting.html)
- [Mermaid](https://mermaid.js.org/ ): create diagrams like flowcharts or sequence diagrams from text in a similar manner as markdown 
	-  [directly on GitHub](https://github.blog/developer-skills/github/include-diagrams-markdown-files-mermaid/) (free)
  -  [including a graphical user interface ](https://www.mermaidchart.com) (freemium)
  -  [code editor](https://mermaid.live/) (free)
  -  [GPT](https://chatgpt.com/g/g-684cc36f30208191b21383b88650a45d-mermaid-chart-diagrams-and-charts) (paid via OpenAI)
  -  and [many more integrations](https://mermaid.js.org/ecosystem/integrations-community.html)
- GitHub: [Get started](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/start-your-journey/hello-world)
- UX, Design and Prototyping Tools, e.g.:
	- [Figma](https://www.figma.com/) 
	- [Penpot](https://penpot.app/)
 	- [Miro](https://miro.com/)
- [DVS4U](https://heidi-universe.ch/en/index.html) (API for issuing and verifying credentials based on the e-ID)

## Mentors

Mentors will support you in developping your solutions. You will find physical documents at the hackathon, listing the mentors with their respective skills (e.g. tools, E-ID, cryptography, accessibility) and perspectives (e.g. municipalities, cantons, Federal Chancellery) as well as the slots for their presentations (if applicable).

## Contributing

By participating in this hackathon, you accept and agree to our [code of conduct](/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Language

The hackathon will be moderated in German and simultaneously translated into French. Presentations will be given in German or French and simultaneously translated. Most of the time, participants will work in their respective teams, where they can choose one or more languages.

## Organizers

The [Institute for Public Sector Transformation](https://www.bfh.ch/en/research/research-areas/public-sector-transformation/) at Bern University of Applied Sciences (BFH) is organising the hackathon on behalf of the [Federal Chancellery](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home.html).
